Brac University Computer Club, shortly known as BUCC is one of the most prestigious and well known clubs of Brac University filled with a diverse amount of tech enthusiasts. Starting its journey in 2001, BUCC has been playing a key role in arranging various events, seminars, workshops etc. every semester. Not just learning about computers, the members are flourishing their soft skills in writing, communicating, researching and many related fields by engaging themselves in their respective departments.

Eight prestigious departments, which are Press Release and Publications, Communication and Marketing, Creative, Event Management, Finance, Human Resource, and the newly established Research and development comprise BUCC, where the people work tirelessly behind curtains to keep BUCC in its high position. 

BUCC was established in 2001 with Mr. Rafiqul Hasan Chowdhury, Faculty member of Computer Science Department as the Founder Advisor and with Mr. S. M. Mahabubuzzaman (ID-01101071) Student of Computer Science Department as Secretary. Mr. Annajiat Alim Rasel is the current advisor of BUCC, while Mr. Arif Shakil and Ms. Afia Mubassira Islam are the co-advisors.

The panel system of BUCC consists of both the executive body and general body, and both the bodies are of equal level. The hierarchy starts from President, General Secretary, Vice President, Treasurer in the executive body and Director, Assistant Director in the general body. The general body is in every department while the executive body covers the club overly with these 4 people. In each department, after directors, the other posts are senior executives, executives and general members in lines of hierarchy. Since the panel starts from AD, any senior executive can enter the panel and it's not necessary for them to be a director of a department in order to become a member of the executive panel. 

A whopping number of 10 events were covered by BUCC in one year from November 2023 to October 2024. Three fb based live events were conducted in November and December. On 22nd November, 2023 "Pathway to Tech Giants" was held where Mr. Shakil Ahmed, a software engineer from Meta was invited. Consequently, another Facebook Live event about data analysis titled “Data Insights Unveiled: Analytics Beyond Basics” was held on 25th November of 2023. An alumni of BracU Ms. Farah Nazifa, currently working as a senior data analyst at Optus, Australia conducted this event. Finally, "Conducting Student Thesis and Research with Bengali.AI was held on 3rd December. 

On 6th, February, 2024, the first official event at the new campus “IT Career Guideline: What It Needs to Be an Industry Expert” was held in association with Bangladesh-based JS bootcamp Project Code, a joint venture partnership with Codeworks. The event was mostly conducted by Mr. Eshtiaque Khan, lead at Project Code, followed by his associates at Project Code and course instructors. Following this event, on June 4, an insightful webinar titled “Pathway to Research and Industry in the USA” was conducted. An Algorithm Development Engineer at STMicroelectronics, Dr. Swapnil Sayan Saha gave his insights and an idea on how to conduct research and get into the industry career of USA starting from scratch.

Subsequently, on 9th June, a workshop was arranged titled "The Art of Digital Photography". It was conducted by Mr. Moiyen Zalal Chowdhury, assistant professor and visual anthropologist, Brac University and Mr. Sakhawat Hossain, a commercial photographer and founder of Shondhikkhon facebook page. They gave a dynamic insight of how our life can be viewed with photography which is beyond our conventional ways.

Then, on 10th June, 2024, the much awaited event of every club "GBM" was arranged by BUCC. The general body meeting of the Summer '24 was an interaction among the members, reviews of the past events and the future plans of the club, along with twists of entertainment.

On 23rd June, BUCC along with BASIS Students' Forum BRACU Chapter arranged a session titled “The CV Blueprint: Crafting Your Professional Path’’ in the theatre room at 9E-20T. The event was conducted by industry experts Niaz Ahmed, Founder & CEO, Corporate Ask and Biplob Ghosh Rahul, Director, BASIS. They provided their insights on building CV and resume, and also introduced the various activities of BASIS to the students. Following that, On June 27, an insightful seminar, "Designing the Future: Pioneering UI/UX Design to Catapult Your Startup’s Success" was hosted. The seminar was conducted by Mr. Raiyan Sofwan, Co-Founder and Lead Product Designer at Populate, New York, Co-Founder at "Shikhbe Shobai", and a mentor at ADPList. Finally, on 1st July, a webinar titled “Examples of Research in Computer Vision and IoT Sensor" was held. Dr. Md Atiqur Rahman Ahad, an associate professor in computer vision at the University of East London in the United Kingdom was the guest speaker who shared his journey and the scopes of Computer vision.